[James Northridge] I guess the way I approach this question is,
is more so to talk
about the things that we're
actually doing really well. So
we've got phenomenal senior
leadership  and we have our,
our registrar / deputy President
as our project sponsor. He
pushes quite a lot. We've been
relatively well funded since I
took up the post. I
started the project about a year
and a half ago and I guess
in thinking about... that it's
about "how do we keep that
momentum"?
And so, so we have strong leadership, we
have good momentum. We've
relatively good funding. But I
guess one of the the core
challenges for me are what
happens when "the shine" goes
off the project?
What happens when the registrar says,
"you know what, I've given you
enough of my time now, you need
to fly solo". And I
suppose my concern is
we're at that sort of tipping point.
Have we built enough momentum and
buy in? Have we got enough
staff on board to actually keep
them on board? We're doing
things relatively well I would
think.
But my my other concern is that
staff were coming to that point
of thinking. "I think I've done
enough. I've used the
accessory checker, I've checked
my content, we're doing good
with Ally."
I have that reservation. That's
certainly one of the core
challenges and what we try to do
to mitigate it, I suppose, is to
embed accessibility and
universal design into our new
five-year strategic plan.
And again, one of the challenges
there is, it's a nice to have challenge.
It's in there. It's
certainly been called out, but
are we going to put enough
behind it,
actually resourced  to
move it forward? So that's
probably some of the core
challenges for us at the moment.
Even though they sound like
positives, my concern is that
they're going to spin in the
next, you know, 6 to 8 months if
if we don't build enough
momentum in the short term.
[Sarah Whittaker] The biggest challenge is awareness
and also buy in. We do
not have a policy. We do not
have a law like we have in
Canada. I'm from Ontario as well
and we don't have that here in
the UAE. However, I've been in
the UAE for almost 15 years and
it's changed a lot since I first
came into the country and first
started working in my institute.
So we have over 25,000 students.
We have to have accessibility.
It's just we know that there are
students who need our support.
They never get turned away.
We always accept, but then it's
the challenge of providing
the support and especially with
students who are having visible
needs. So here in the UAE
recently in the last four or
five years, they have created a
site, a government site and they
have started pushing from the
government to provide support to
all students. And there's like a
a policy of "Leave no Emirati Behind."
They're called "people of
determination" in this country.
So, it's a very positive spin
about it.
So it is changing, which is
great. However, is it changing
fast enough? And at the
educational level and in our
institute we have, you know, so
many students and we, I know,
for example, if they need
support for exams, we have final
exams coming up. We have a
student on the campus that I'm
in who needs a reader. So we
have somebody dedicated sitting
there reading the exam out for
her. So that's great. But we
also have some amazing tools and
unfortunately the councillors
are not aware of those tools
because they're
their counsellors, they're not
accessibility experts and we
don't have a specific
accessibility team, which I wish
we had. We need, we need to hire
and get our team together. So
hopefully as the government
moves forward and and the push
gets stronger, those things will
come into place. They're very
good at technology here and very
good at supporting the people.
So hopefully, yeah, it will kind
of have a good domino effect for us.